Our focus today is
on two beautiful Christian qualities
that are married to each other
—that go hand in hand—
faith and hope.
Why is it so important for you and me
to strengthen our faith in what we hope for?
Please open your Bible with me
to Hebrews chapter 12,
and I’d like you to focus on verse 1.
Of course, we know in the context
in the previous chapter, Hebrews chapter 11,
the apostle has just defined faith,
and then he went on to recount
many examples of men and women
who exercised strong faith
and kept their focus on their future hope.
And they did so
throughout the course of their entire life,
even to death.
But now notice the exhortation
that the apostle builds on,
as found at Hebrews 12:1,
and we’ll also read
the first part of verse 2:
“So, then, because we have such a great cloud
of witnesses surrounding us,
“let us also throw off every weight
“and the sin that easily entangles us,
“and let us run with endurance
the race that is set before us,
“as we look intently at the Chief Agent
and Perfecter of our faith, Jesus.”
Now, in verse 1, Paul mentions
“the sin that easily entangles us.”
What should we visualize?
Well, that Greek expression
could help us to picture
a runner in a race
who has too many clothes on.
I’m picturing a man who has on,
instead of shorts,
oversized sweatpants
and tennis shoes with his shoes unlaced.
How easy it would be for him
to trip and fall, to be entangled
in his own clothing and attire!
Well, that’s the word picture
that the apostle Paul used
to describe a danger that faces all of us,
including experienced Christians
who have a record of faith.
That sin is a lack of faith.
For a newer Christian, it could be
not developing the faith
that we had at the beginning after baptism.
But for an experienced Christian,
that lack of faith could be
a loss of once strong faith
that we had in the past.
To that latter point,
you might notice in verse 1
that the apostle Paul
—a pillar in the congregation,
a man of faith—
includes himself in the exhortation.
He says: “Let us also
throw off every weight . . .
let us run with endurance.”
By including himself,
Paul was likely admitting
his own inclination
—his propensity—
to get easily entangled
in episodes of a momentary weakness of faith.
Well, that’s a powerful lesson
for all of us, isn’t it?
All of us need
to keep strengthening our faith.
What is more, the Bible makes it clear
that if we get entangled
in a momentary loss of faith,
we can recover
—and we can recover quickly.
Notice this in an experience
that the apostle Peter had.
Open, please, with me
to Matthew chapter 14,
and cast your eyes to verse 24.
Now, visualize the scene:
It’s early in the morning before dawn.
Peter and some of the disciples
are struggling to row their boat
in the Sea of Galilee during a storm.
Suddenly, they see Jesus walking on the sea.
In verse 26, when they catch sight of him,
the Bible tells us
“they cried out in their fear.”
Peter and those disciples
—hardy fishermen, manly men—
“cried out in their fear.”
In verse 27, Jesus tells them:
“Take courage!
It is I; do not be afraid.”
Then, what did Peter do?
Verse 28: “Lord, if it is you,
command me to come to you over the waters.”
Well, when Jesus told Peter to come,
what did Peter do?
He got out of the boat,
and he started walking on the water
toward Jesus.
Did that take faith?
Indeed!
But soon after, we know,
as the account goes on to say,
Peter began to sink.
Why?
Notice the opening of verse 30:
“But looking at the windstorm,
he became afraid.”
When Peter lost his focus on Jesus,
his faith wavered.
This was a momentary period of weak faith.
The same can happen to any of us,
including experienced Christians.
A loss of focus can lead to a loss of faith.
Have you gone through
or are you going through
some storms in your life?
The wind and the waves
that were surrounding Peter
as he walked on the water
could be compared to the trials
and the temptations that we face
in our dedicated service to Jehovah.
Thanks to our faith,
you and I are doing something
that for the majority seems impossible
—serving Jehovah
and having a clean standing
and a dedicated relationship
in the last days
of this difficult system of things.
But winds and waves are coming our way.
Perhaps it’s an unexpected illness
for us or for a close family member
or friend.
Maybe it’s the fear that comes
from the economic pressures
that are upon many
of our brothers and sisters
—not just in Venezuela, not just in Africa,
but in all parts of the earth
where there’s crisis in economies.
Or maybe it’s the waves of persecution
that come upon our brothers in all places
—not just in Russia
but perhaps right within the family.
Or what about adjustments
that might affect our privileges of service?
You know, a new work assignment
here at Bethel
or in the field or in the congregation
or a change of assignment
that takes us out of the comfort zone
of special full-time service
could prove to be a storm for us
that causes us to be afraid.
One brother who had his heart set
on being a missionary
found that after many years
in missionary service,
he and his wife had to go home.
“For the first time in my life,” he says,
“I lost all sense of direction.
“I had no goals.
Nothing seemed important anymore.”
Well, what happened?
A temporary, momentary weakness of faith.
But now, let’s dwell further
on Peter’s experience
as you look back at verse 30.
What was it specifically
that caused Peter to sink?
Was it a big gust or a big wave?
No.
It was his looking at the windstorm
that caused him to become afraid.
It was his change in focus.
Likewise, if we lose our focus
and dwell too much on our storms
—circumstances in our day-to-day living
in this system of things—
and we look at how powerful those storms are,
we could begin doubting
that Jehovah will support us.
But now notice what happens next in verse 30.
The Bible says: “And when he started to sink,
he cried out: ‘Lord, save me!’”
What Peter did next,
after his momentary loss of faith,
is really a powerful lesson for all of us.
Peter quickly recovered.
Now, we know from what the Bible tells us
that Peter was a capable swimmer.
His natural inclination could have been
to swim back to the boat
because he was sinking,
but he didn’t do that.
He didn’t depend on himself.
He refocused on Jesus,
and he took Jesus’ outstretched hand.
Well, what’s the lesson for all of us?
If we sense that our faith is ever weakening
or we’re starting to give way to fear,
we need to imitate Peter’s example.
We can recover quickly.
We might look back at Hebrews 12:2
—Hebrews 12:2,
and notice how the apostle Paul,
in encouraging us
not to get entangled in a lack of faith,
says that we need
to “look intently at . . . Jesus”
and verse 3: “Consider closely
“the one who has endured
such hostile speech from sinners . . . ,
so that you may not get tired and give up.”
‘Looking intently’ and ‘considering closely’
remind us that we need to refocus on Jesus.
What was it that gave Jesus
unbreakable faith?
Strong hope.
Well, that same account tells us
that he looked ahead
at “the joy that was set before him.”
We need to focus on our future blessings.
One of our Watchtower  articles said this:
“Put yourself in the picture
by writing down or making a drawing
“of what you hope to do once God has removed
this . . . system [of things].
“Make a list of people whom you look forward
to meeting when they are resurrected
“and what you would like
to discuss with them.
“See these as God’s promises
not just to mankind in general
but to you personally.”
Jesus, we know, was convinced
that the Bible is God’s Word.
He diligently meditated on God’s words
—His precious promises.
We need to do the same as well.
Jesus taught us to pray for holy spirit.
We can ask Jehovah for more faith.
Jehovah will readily respond to such prayers.